## Journal: 6/1/2024, Friday

This is basically the first log of my journal. This shall be an important part for organizing my chaotic thoughts and minimizing the distracting, internal cues.

Although I'm an engineer, I do like to add in some flavors in journaling. Experimentation is the name of the game; the evolution of career and growth of engineering skills are what I aim to become. Meanwhile, I hope to be exposed to new interests and incorporate them into lessons & projects. From the standpoint of my career, much of my life has been spent pursuing someone's interests. Why not pursue my own interests for a change? 

Don't get me wrong; I have countless interests. The challenge is that none of them has particularly stood out. Well, except for the gourmet meals since I'm a huge foodie. Even with that, I find myself ill-equiped to bridge my interest in food to the computer science. 

One speculation points to exploration with delibration. In other words, not only do I want to eat to live, I want to live to eat. Can one code their way to some Michelin-rated restaurants? Well, one can dream...

And it certainlly doesn't help with the drools I've made over my desk. 


### What did I learn or do?

- Lesson: I come to realize that adding in some initial thoughts help me to relax my mental state. This way, I would be more at ease with retrospection. Or rather, less dry or stiff, however one may put it.


### Where did I struggle?

Motivation. Nuff said

### What did I like?

Journaling! I did miss it

### What would I do next?

Currently, I'm studying a book called "Problem Solving with Algorithms and Data Structures Using Python" by Bradley N. Miller & David L. Ranum (2nd Edition, 2011, Franklin, Beedle & Associates). Already, I have completed first two chapters and found them to be critical to my understanding. What I hope to accomplish next is to code out and demostrate the lessons I've learned.