## Journal: 6/9/2024, Sunday

It's certainly been a while since the last time I have uploaded a log. Given a hectic week, I finally can buckle down on education. 

Before I begin, there were a few things to note: I have also spent some time configuring Ubuntu OS to accommodate my toolset. Firstly, I settled on Visual Studio Code as the primary editor, and as it turned out, it couldn't do the formatting correct. No amount of configuration throughout the editor and OS could get the behavior I need. To be more specific, Visual Studio Code couldn't automatically format text upon paste to match the syntactical conventions of Python. I switched to Sublime editor, but to no avail either. Finally, PyCharm had been proven useful, although there were tolerable quirks. Without further ado...

### What did I learn or do?
I decided to revisit one part of the book<sup>1</sup>, which described the common functions of Big-O notation. I found the piece intriguing. Remembering the college days, I found myself puzzling over what it means to work with the Big-O functions, the hows, and the whys. The confusion was overwhelming, and I ended up not thinking of them as much. Did they really emphasize the concepts as a fundamental pillar? If so, that was
somehow lost on me. 

More recently, after acquiring significant experiences as a software engineer, I then saw how important to understand the Big-O notations, and more generally, how to measure space and time complexity. This shall be the launchpad for the coding practices.

### Where did I struggle?
I believe that data structures and algorithms as a sub-field reveals quite a gap in my knowledge. Once I came to understand how important they are, I found myself wondering why I didn't come to learn of them sooner. Shouldn't they be included in the college curriculum of which I've graduated with? 

I took a visit to the website of Rochester Institute of Technology and found that Information Technology as a major was no longer registered in their list. Rather, it had envolved 
to Computing and Information Technologies, and their curriculum had transformed as well. There were many new classes I had not taken. Even the familiar courses had been restructured. 

Finally, a terrifying thought came across: am I falling behind? World is changing, and I'm finally realizing how terrifying the rate of changes is. 

### What did I like?

Despite the creeping fear, the lessons have been engaging, and communities very helpful with creating the tools we need to do our jobs, or in this case, my lessons fast. I should remind myself that as long as I enjoy coding, lessons are bound to take me somewhere new. 

My motto from then on should be: <b>feed the curiosity; starve the fear</b>

### What would I do next?

So the questions I ask myself at this point:

- What tools do we have which can measure time and space complexity?
  - Big-O<sup>2</sup>: measures and prints time complexity of a function; space complexity can be measured, but needs
    verification
- What tools do we have which can chart or graph complex dataset?
  - Numpy<sup>3</sup>: manages and generates complex dataset
  - Mathplotlib<sup>4</sup>: charts dataset into graphs
- What data structures should I start with?
  - Linear data structures: aka stacks, queues, deques and linked lists

To distill them into steps:
  - Build classes to represent linear data structures
  - Learn how to use Big-O as a package
  - Invoke Big-O package to test against said classes
  - Observe findings
  - Compile next steps for charting graphs basing off the output of Big-O functions
    - Also consider expanding a lesson or two on space complexity of an algorith

### References:

1: Problem Solving with Algorithms and Data Structures Using Python, Bradley N. Miller, David L. Ranum -  SECOND EDITION (
2011, Franklin, Beedle & Associates)

2: https://pypi.org/project/big-O/

3: https://numpy.org/

4: https://matplotlib.org/